a blow for Boeing as its flagship is
grounded by two Airlines in Japan hello
I'm Michelle Hussain here's why the
Dreamliner emergency landing is our top
story on impact it happened at this
Airport in Japan and it's the latest
scare to affect the Dreamliner we asked
if Boeing could now suffer a global
fallout welcome you probably know what
it's like to go through a bad patch at
work but it looks as though the plane
giant Boeing is facing a particularly
tricky time after another scare
involving its Dreamliner this time one
of the planes was actually forced to
make an emergency landing let's get the
latest now on what was essentially
something that has placed the Dreamliner
and therefore Boeing itself under great
scrutiny
our correspondent roofer dwinfield Hayes
reports this is a sight that will make
hearts sink Boeing's headquarters in
Chicago it may look like a drill but
this is for real an emergency evacuation
from one of Boeing's shiny new 787
Dreamliners it was caught on camera by a
Japanese TV reporter who just happened
to be onboard in the end the fire trucks
were not needed when the passengers all
walked away unharmed but smoke on board
an aircraft in flight is always serious
that's why all nippon airways and japan
airlines have now both ordered the
grounding of all their 787's until they
can be thoroughly checked epsilon and
All Nippon Airways flight has made an
emergency landing after a cockpit
message indicated there was a problem
details are being checked but we are not
prepared to comment on any general
problems that have surfaced in the 787
it's no exaggeration to say the 787 is
the future at Boeing more than 800 of
the high-tech lightweight planes have
been ordered
but in the last week it has been hit by
an unprecedented series of incidents
first an electrical fire onboard a Japan
Airlines Dreamliner in Boston in the US
then a fuel leak from another JAL
Dreamliner at the same airport the next
day last Friday and All Nippon
Dreamliner suffered a cracked winds and
now this latest emergency experts insist
none of the faults is fundamental and
the 787 is still a very good plane but
with so many incidents in such a short
space of time boeing has a lot of
explaining to do to its customers rupert
Wingfield hays BBC news in tokyo well
let's talk about that explaining the
boeing has to do that Rupert referred to
because with you now is business
presenter Aaron hazel has how are they
dealing with what's got to feel like a
pretty tricky time for Boeing oh the
show you probably can't stress enough
just how much pressure is piling up on
the u.s. plane maker Boeing they did
come out with a statement very simple
short statement I quote we will be
working with our customers and the
appropriate regulatory agencies but the
reason the pressure is really piling up
on on Boeing Michelle is because the
problems with these Japanese carriers in
Japan it's moving beyond Japan Indian
aviation regulators came out today and
said that they're launching their own
safety investigation this is on top of
course the Japanese investigation the
u.s. investigation but for Boeing at the
end of the day the reason the pressure
again is partly is we can't stress also
just how important this is their most
important aircraft
it's Boeing's future I put a little
something together just for you Michelle
just to show you why the 787 is so
vitally important to Boeing and its
profits there we go let's take a look
because this aircraft represents some
huge investments for airlines because
each one there you go each one of those
babies cost over two hundred million
dollars 49 of these jets have already
been delivered but on the order books
eight hundred are still sitting there
now All Nippon Airways Japan Airlines
they're the only carriers to have
grounded the 787 fleet but they are the
biggest customers to date but United
Airlines Cateye you can see on the
screen there are also major customers
Air India Ethiopian Airways have also
taken delivery of some of their
787's and in Chile a land that's the
chile carrier and the Polish carrier lot
have also got their um their 787 okay so
I mean the focus has been on the
Japanese Airlines the ones that have
actually grounded their aircraft already
what about all the other airlines then
that have placed orders well they're all
remaining very confident they've been
quite vocal today coming out and saying
look we remain confident I think you
know within the aviation industry most
of the experts are saying anything
high-tech like this this is
groundbreaking technology we're talking
about with this aircraft
you know carbon fiber shells no
aluminium no hydraulics it's all new
super technology you're gonna have
teaming problems and they'll remind
everybody the Airbus a380 had some
teasing problems when it first was first
came out first launch but we heard
British Airways said look we're gonna
stick to our order of 24 aircraft Qantas
saying we're gonna stick to our 15 order
we also heard from scoot which is the
the low budget long-haul for Singapore
Airlines they've got 20 and I've heard
from their CEO iliyan he was saying look
we remain very confident again it's the
teething problem just to quickly add one
big concern is passenger confidence
that's not the airlines yeah the
passengers start saying actually I'd
rather booked on a different plane is
this one a Dreamliner exactly under
passengers over there you know flying
public over the last few weeks they've
seen cracked windows brake failures
fires on board this aircraft doesn't
shoot your boat well for for confidence
on this particular K well I know you're
going to keep right across that thanks
very much Erin hustle house